---
layout: default
title: "Version 3.1.0"
date: 2022-09-11 09:53:00 +0300
---

## Version 3.1.0

[Link to this release.](https://github.com/vyrjana/DearEIS/releases/tag/3.1.0)

- Added the ability to copy circuit diagrams to the clipboard as SVG from the `Fitting` and `Simulation` tabs.
- Updated to use version 3.1.0 of `pyimpspec`, which resulted in the following changes:
	- Added `Circuit.to_drawing` method for drawing circuit diagrams using the `schemdraw` package.
	- Added support for using the `cvxpy` package as an optional solver in DRT calculations (TR-RBF method only).
	- Added `cvxpy` as an optional dependency.
	- Added `CircuitBuilder.__iadd__` method so that the `+=` operator can be used instead of the `CircuitBuilder.add` method.
	- Updated `Element.set_label`, `Element.set_fixed`, `Element.set_lower_limit`, and `Element.set_upper_limit` methods to return the element so that the calls can be chained (e.g., `Resistor(R=50).set_label("ct").set_fixed("R", True)`).
	- Updated the default terminal labels used in circuit diagrams.
- Updated the label of a terminal node in the circuit editor.
- Fixed a bug that prevented the lambda value input field from being disabled under certain circumstances when switching to the BHT method.
- Fixed a bug that prevented the "Copy output..." action in the command palette from working in the `DRT analysis` tab.
- Updated the minimum version for a dependency.
- Pinned Dear PyGui at version 1.6.2 until the automatic adjustment of axis limits in plots can be made to work properly with version 1.7.0.
