---
layout: default
title: "Version 3.0.0"
date: 2022-09-05 09:09:00 +0300
---

## Version 3.0.0

[Link to this release.](https://github.com/vyrjana/DearEIS/releases/tag/3.0.0)

**Breaking changes in the API!**

- `DataSet`, `TestResult`, `FitResult`, and `SimulationResult` methods such as `get_bode_data` that previously returned base-10 logarithms of, e.g., frequencies now instead return the non-logarithmic values.
- The `perform_exploratory_tests` function now returns a list of `deareis.TestResult` instead of a list of `pyimpspec.KramersKronigResult` and the results have already been sorted from best to worst.
- The `score_test_results` function has been removed.
- The `string_to_circuit` function has been renamed to `parse_cdc`.
- The `fit_circuit_to_data` function has been renamed to `fit_circuit`.
- The `PlotSeries` class now has methods such as `get_nyquist_data`, `get_bode_data`, etc.
  Thus, such objects can be either passed directly to the plotting functions available through the API of DearEIS or they can be used with unsupported plotting libraries.
  The underlying source of the data is stored in a `data` property but accessing the data needed for plotting purposes is best accessed via the methods.
	If the data is not available because the source does not contain it (e.g., `TestResult` objects do not have the data required to plot a distribution of relaxation times), then empty `numpy.ndarray` objects are returned.
- Some enums have been renamed (e.g., `Method` is now `CNLSMethod`).

**Other changes** 

- Added a `DRT analysis` tab with support for calculating the distribution of relaxation times using a few different methods.
- Added appearance settings for the new plot types used in the `DRT analysis` tab.
- Added new keybindings for use in the `DRT analysis` tab.
- Added new plot types to the `Plotting` tab.
- Added support for rendering math using matplotlib.
- Added new plotting functions to the API.
- Added `perform_exploratory_tests` function to the API.
- Added overlay messages when switching to, e.g., another data set.
- Added `CircuitBuilder` class to the API.
- Updated tooltips (e.g., to make use of the new math rendering capability).
- Updated formatting of axis limits in the popup window for exporting plots created in the `Plotting` tab.
- Updated the appearances of plots (e.g., removal of grid lines and changing over to using logarithmic scales).
- Updated config file structure as a result of changes to plot exporting settings and the addition of DRT analysis settings.
- Updated the `Project` class and its corresponding file structure to support DRT analysis results.
- Updated how labels are generated for `TestResult`, `FitResult`, and `SimulationResult` objects.
- Updated buttons in the home tab to have dynamic labels according to whether or not recent projects have been selected.
- Updated overlay messages to use pyimpspec's API for more detailed progress information when performing, e.g., Kramers-Kronig tests.
- Updated number formatting.
- Refactored how the tabs are updated when switching to, e.g., another data set.
- Refactored the `deareis.mpl.plot` function to make better use of `pyimpspec`'s API.
- Refactored settings for exporting plots.
- Refactored the settings menus in the `Kramers-Kronig`, `Fitting`, and `Simulation` tabs.
- Refactored the window for defining default settings.
- Fixed bugs that caused (un)selecting groups of items in the `Plotting` tab to not work properly.
