---
layout: default
title: "Version 2.0.0"
date: 2022-07-31 13:33:00 +0300
---

## Version 2.0.0

[Link to this release.](https://github.com/vyrjana/DearEIS/releases/tag/2.0.0)

- Added a window for exporting plots using matplotlib.
	- Testing showed that attempting to free the memory allocated to the plot previews caused DearEIS to always crash on one of the computers used for testing.
	  The cause is not known at the moment but it could a bug in the GPU drivers (NVIDIA 515.57 on Linux) and/or in the GUI framework (Dear PyGui 1.6.2).
	- Two workarounds have been implemented in the form of two settings that can be found in the **Settings - defaults** window:
		- Disabling the **Clear texture registry** setting prevents the crashes without taking away the ability to have plot previews.
		  However, doing so introduces a memory leak since the memory allocated to each plot preview is not freed until DearEIS is closed.
		- Alternatively, enabling the **Disable plot previews** setting prevents the crashes without introducing a memory leak by not generating plot previews at all.
- Added settings for the default values used when exporting plots (e.g., dimensions and extension).
- Added support for the new data formats supported by pyimpspec.
- Added tests for the API and the GUI.
- Updated the config file structure to support the new settings.
- Updated minimum Python and dependency versions.
- Updated the API and its documentation.
- Added new keybindings and updated some old ones for greater consistency.
- Changed how most of the plots are updated to prevent flickering of the legend.
- Fixed a bug that allowed an empty string to be used as the file name when saving using the file dialog window.
- Fixed a bug that caused an exception when deleting a simulation result after undoing/redoing an action.
- Fixed a bug that caused an exception when undoing impedance subtraction.
- Fixed a bug that caused an exception when undoing the creation of a simulation.
- Fixed a bug that caused an exception when undoing the loading of a data set.
- Fixed a bug that caused focus to switch to another input in the file dialog window when pressing just the F key.
- Fixed a bug that prevented the table of data points and plots from updating when undoing/redoing impedance subtraction.
- Fixed bugs that occurred when trying to copy a mask or subtract an impedance with fewer than two data sets present in a project.
- Fixed issues detected by mypy.
- Fixed the incorrect label on the x-axis of the mu/chi-squared vs num. RC plot.
- Optimized the plotting tab to reduce loading times (by approx. 25-30 % based on testing).
- Refactored code and removed deprecated code.

